# Overview of raw OD data

## Directory structure

```bash
.
├── OD_data
│   ├── day1
│   │   ├── OD_data
│   │   ├── reshaped_od
│   │   ├── IC50_fitting.ipynb
│   │   ├── Plot_data.ipynb
│   │   └── plots
│   ├── ...
│   ├── day27
│   │   ├── OD_data
│   │   ├── reshaped_od
│   │   ├── IC50_fitting.ipynb
│   │   ├── Plot_data.ipynb
│   │   └── plots
├── conc_data
│   ├── Plate1.xlsx
│   ├── ...
│   ├── Plate8.xlsx
│   └── plate_design.pdf
├── PlateType_201907_matching_30plates_TimeSeries.xlsx
├── strain_num_matching.xlsx
└── README.md
```

- OD_data: Includes the raw OD data from day *N*=1–27 of the laboratory evolution experiment.
  - day*N* 
    - **OD_data**: Includes the raw OD files generated by the Biomek interface. The authors have reformatted these files in an interpretable which are stored in the `reshaped_od` directory, so the files in this directory can be ignored.
    The file names are defined as `OD_Result_{day}_{plate_num}.csv`
    - **reshaped_od**: This includes the raw OD data (same values with the data inside `/OD_data`, but formatted in a more interpretable manner). File names are defined as `OD_dayN_plateX_Y.csv` where $\rm{strain\_num}=2\times(X-1)+Y$ and the evolution environment for each $\rm{strain\_num}$ is described in `./strain_num_matching.xlsx`.
    `OD_dayN_plateX_Y.csv` contains the OD data for a certain strain for day *N* as a $8\times24$ matrix. 
    The eight rows represent the eight drugs (TET, KM, NFLX, SS, PLM, NQO, SDC, MMC), and the 24 columns represent the 24 wells in the 384-well plate which were used to make a drug concentration gradient.
    Please refer to `./conc_data/plate_design.pdf` for a detailed description of the drug concentrations of each well.
    The values in the matrix are the OD_620 values as described in the Materials and Methods section in our paper [1].
    - **IC50_fitting.ipynb**: The jupyter notebook which we used to calculate the IC50 values based on the measured OD.
    - **Plot_data.ipynb**: The jupyter notebook which can be used to plot the OD curves for each environment.
    The author used the plots to observe the resistance evolution during the experiments.
  - **conc_data**: Includes drug concentration information for the 384-well plates used in the experiments.
    - **PlateX.xlsx**: X = 1,...,8 corresponds to the numbers in `PlateType_201907_matching_30plates_TimeSeries.xlsx`. In order to perform the laboratory evolution experiments smoothly, the authors have designed eight different types of 384-well plates with different ranges of drugs. Each xlsx file includes the information for `StockConcentration_mg_per_ml`, `MaxConc_ug_per_ml`, and `step_size` for each drug in the specific design of the 384-well plate. `StockConcentration_mg_per_ml` can be ignored since it is purely for experimental needs.
    `MaxConc_ug_per_ml` corresponds to the highest drug concentration (μg/mL) in the plate, located in well location: 2 (see also the well denoted as `Max well concentration` in `plate_design.pdf`).
    `step_size` corresponds to the size of the drug concentration gradient. For example, when `step_size=0.25`, the well concentration increases with a factor of 2**0.25.
    A schematic is given in `plate_design.pdf`.
    - **plate_design.pdf**: A schematic image describing the relation of `MaxConc_ug_per_ml` and `step_size`.


## Reference

- [1] Iwasawa J, Maeda T, Shibai A, Kotani H, Kawada M, et al. (2022) Analysis of the evolution of resistance to multiple antibiotics enables prediction of the Escherichia coli phenotype-based fitness landscape. PLOS Biology 20(12): e3001920. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.3001920